Expo Router "Getting Started" guide (#35463)
expo/expo: docs/pages/router/basics/notation.mdx

---
title: Expo Router notation
description: Learn how to use special filenames and notation to expressively define your app's navigation tree within your project's file structure.
sidebar_title: Router notation
---

import { FileTree } from '~/ui/components/FileTree';

## Expo Router notation

> Look inside the app folder in a typical Expo Router project, and you'll see a lot more than just some simple file and folder names. What do the parenthesises and brackets mean? Let's learn what the significance of file-based routing notation and how it allows you to define complex navigation patterns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you look inside the **app** directory in a typical Expo Router project, you'll see a lot more than some simple file and directory names. What do the parentheses and brackets mean? Let's learn the significance of file-based routing notation and how it allows you to define complex navigation patterns.
```

> ### Simple names / no notation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Simple names/no notation
```

<FileTree files={[['app/home.tsx'], ['app/feed/favorites.tsx']]} />

> Regular folder and file names without any notation signify _static routes_. Their URL matches exactly as they appear in your file tree. So, a file named **favorites.tsx** inside the **feed** folder will have a URL of `/feed/favorites`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regular file and directory names without any notation signify _static routes_. Their URL matches exactly as they appear in your file tree. So, a file named **favorites.tsx** inside the **feed** directory will have a URL of `/feed/favorites`.
```

### Square brackets

<FileTree files={[['app/[userName].tsx'], ['app/products/[productId]/index.tsx']]} />

> If you see square brackets in a folder or file name, you are looking at a _dynamic route_. The name of the route includes a parameter that can be used when rendering the page. The parameter could be either in a folder name or a file name. For example, a file named **[userName].tsx** will match `/evanbacon`, `/expo`, or another username. Then you can access that parameter with the `useLocalSearchParams` hook inside the page, using that to load the data for that specific user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you see square brackets in a file or directory name, you are looking at a _dynamic route_. The name of the route includes a parameter that can be used when rendering the page. The parameter could be either in a folder name or a file name. For example, a file named **[userName].tsx** will match `/evanbacon`, `/expo`, or another username. Then, you can access that parameter with the `useLocalSearchParams` hook inside the page, using that to load the data for that specific user.
```

### Parentheses

<FileTree files={[['app/(tabs)/index.tsx'], ['app/(tabs)/settings.tsx']]} />

> A folder with its name surrounded in parenthesis indicates a _route group_. These folders are useful for grouping routes together without affecting the URL. For example, a file named **(tabs)/settings.tsx** will have `/settings` for its URL, even though it is not directly in the **app** directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A directory with its name surrounded in parentheses indicates a _route group_. These directories are useful for grouping routes together without affecting the URL. For example, a file named **app/(tabs)/settings.tsx** will have `/settings` for its URL, even though it is not directly in the **app** directory.
```

The (tabs) directory will be initially inside the **app** directory? I think we should use a complete path here just to avoid causing any confusion. Reading last line says otherwise.

> Route groups could be useful for simple organization purposes, but often becomes more important for defining complex relationships between routes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Route groups can be useful for simple organization purposes, but often become more important for defining complex relationships between routes.
```

### index.tsx files

<FileTree files={[['app/(tabs)/index.tsx'], ['app/profile/index.tsx']]} />

> Just like on the web, an **index.tsx** file indicates the default route for a folder. For example, a file named **profile/index.tsx** will match `/profile`. A file named **(tabs)/index.tsx** will match `/`, effectively becoming the default route for your entire app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just like on the web, an **index.tsx** file indicates the default route for a directory. For example, a file named **profile/index.tsx** will match `/profile`. A file named **(tabs)/index.tsx** will match `/`, effectively becoming the default route for your entire app.
```

### \_layout.tsx files

<FileTree files={[['app/\_layout.tsx'], ['app/(tabs)/\_layout.tsx'], ['app/feed/\_layout.tsx']]} />

> **\_layout.tsx** files are special files that are not pages themselves, but define how groups of routes inside a folder relate to each other. If a folder of routes are arranged as a stack or tabs, the layout route is where you would define that relationship by using a stack navigator or tab navigator component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**\_layout.tsx** files are special files that are not pages themselves but define how groups of routes inside a directory relate to each other. If a directory of routes is arranged as a stack or tabs, the layout route is where you would define that relationship by using a stack navigator or tab navigator component.
```

> Layout routes are rendered prior to the actual page routes inside their folder. This means that the **\_layout.tsx** directly inside the app folder is rendered before anything else in the app, and is where you would put initialization code that may have previously gone inside an **App.js** file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Layout routes are rendered before the actual page routes inside their directory. This means that the **\_layout.tsx** directly inside the **app** directory is rendered before anything else in the app, and is where you would put the initialization code that may have previously gone inside an **App.jsx** file.
```

### Plus sign

<FileTree files={[['app/+not-found.tsx'], ['app/+native-intent.tsx']]} />

> Routes starting with a `+` have special significance to Expo Router. One example is `+not-found`, which catches any requests that don't match a route in your app.

Reviewer 2: Can this be elaborated more?

Author: took a shot!

> Routes starting with a “+” have special significance to Expo Router. One example is `+not-found`, which is a catches any requests that don't match a route in your app. You’ll learn more about these as you need them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Routes starting with a `+` have special significance to Expo Router. One example is `+not-found`, which catches any requests that don't match a route in your app.
```

I don't think there's any significance here for the last line unless we link to something.

## Route notation applied

> Considering this example project file structure, let's identify the different types of routes represented:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider the following project file structure to identify the different types of routes represented:
```

<FileTree
  files={[
    ['app/(tabs)/\_layout.tsx'],
    ['app/(tabs)/index.tsx'],
    ['app/(tabs)/feed.tsx'],
    ['app/(tabs)/\profile.tsx'],
    ['app/_layout.tsx'],
    ['app/users/[userId].tsx'],
    ['app/users/+not-found.tsx'],
    ['app/about.tsx'],
  ]}
/>

- **app/about.tsx** is a static route that matches `/about`.
- **app/users/[userId].tsx** is a dynamic route that matches `/users/123`, `/users/456`, and so on.
- **app/(tabs)** is a route group. It will not factor into the URL, so `/feed` will match **app/(tabs)/feed.tsx**.

> - **app/(tabs)/index.tsx** is the default route for the **(tabs)** folder, so it will be the initially-focusd tab, and will match the `/` URL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **app/(tabs)/index.tsx** is the default route for the **(tabs)** folder, so it will be the initially-focused tab, and will match the `/` URL.
```

initially-focusd -> initially-focused

> - **app/(tabs)\index.tsx** is the default route for the **(tabs)** folder, so it will be the initially-focusd tab, and will match the `/` URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **app/(tabs)\index.tsx** is the default route for the **(tabs)** directory, so it will be the initially focused tab and will match the `/` URL.
```

> - **app/(tabs)/_layout.tsx** is a layout file defining how the three pages inside **app/(tabs)** relate to each other. If we use a tab navigator component inside of this file, then those screens will be arranged as tabs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **app/(tabs)/_layout.tsx** is a layout file defining how the three pages inside **app/(tabs)/** relate to each other. If you use a tab navigator component inside of this file, then those screens will be arranged as tabs.
```
